nixos/mautrix-discord: refactor (#469813)
NixOS/nixpkgs: nixos/modules/services/matrix/mautrix-discord.md

The common setup is to enable the bridge, point it at your homeserver, and set the permissions you want to allow:

1. Set `services.mautrix-discord.enable` to `true`.
2. Set `services.mautrix-discord.settings.homeserver.address` and `services.mautrix-discord.settings.homeserver.domain`.
3. Override `services.mautrix-discord.settings.bridge.permissions` if the default relay permissions do not fit your deployment.

The module provides sensible defaults for the appservice listener, registration tokens, and relay permissions.

### Basic Example {#module-services-mautrix-discord-basic-example}

```nix
{
  services.mautrix-discord = {
    enable = true;
    registerToSynapse = true;
    settings = {
      homeserver = {
        address = "http://localhost:8008";
        domain = "example.com";
      };
      bridge.permissions = {
        "example.com" = "user";
        "@admin:example.com" = "admin";
      };
    };
  };
}
```

### Server Defaults {#module-services-mautrix-discord-server-defaults}

By default, the bridge listens on `http://localhost:29334` and generates its appservice tokens automatically.

## Authentication {#module-services-mautrix-discord-authentication}

> If you want to store the bridge database outside the default SQLite file, set `settings.appservice.database` to use PostgreSQL instead of SQLite:

Reviewer: if you switch the default from postgres to sqlite then please add release notes

Reviewer: my bad I mixed with other mautrix modules, this module was already defaulting to sqlite.

## Advanced Configuration {#module-services-mautrix-discord-advanced}

The upstream default configuration is available at [example-config.yaml](https://github.com/mautrix/discord/blob/main/example-config.yaml). To print the generated default configuration from the package, run:

```bash
nix-shell -p mautrix-discord --run "mautrix-discord -e"
```

### Encryption {#module-services-mautrix-discord-encryption}

```nix
{
  services.mautrix-discord.settings.bridge.encryption = {
    allow = true;
    default = true;
    require = false;
  };
}
```

Encryption needs additional bridge-side setup. See the [bridge encryption documentation](https://docs.mau.fi/bridges/general/end-to-bridge-encryption.html) for details.

### Backfill {#module-services-mautrix-discord-backfill}

```nix
{
  services.mautrix-discord.settings.bridge.backfill.forward_limits.initial = {
    dm = 50;
    channel = 50;
    thread = 50;
  };
}
```

### Double Puppeting {#module-services-mautrix-discord-double-puppet}

```nix
{
  services.mautrix-discord = {
    environmentFile = "/run/secrets/mautrix-discord-env";
    settings.bridge.login_shared_secret_map = {
      "example.com" = "$SHARED_SECRET";
    };
  };
}

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```
where  `/run/secrets/mautrix-discord-env` contains
```
SHARED_SECRET=aProtectedSecret
```
~~~

# Mautrix-Discord {#module-services-mautrix-discord}

[Mautrix-Discord](https://github.com/mautrix/discord) is a Matrix-Discord puppeting/relay-bot bridge.

## Configuration {#module-services-mautrix-discord-configuration}

1. Set [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.enable) to `true`. The service will use
   SQLite by default.
2. Configure the required settings for your homeserver and appservice:
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.homeserver.address) - Your Matrix homeserver URL
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.homeserver.domain) - Your Matrix homeserver domain
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.appservice.address) - The address where the bridge will listen
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.appservice.port) - The port where the bridge will listen

>    - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.bridge.permissions) - Who can use the bridge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Configure the required settings for your homeserver and appservice:
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.homeserver.address)
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.homeserver.domain)
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.appservice.address)
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.appservice.port)
   - [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.settings.bridge.permissions)
```
we kinda repeat the descriptions here

To use PostgreSQL instead of SQLite:

```nix
{
  services.mautrix-discord.settings.appservice.database = {
    type = "postgres";
    uri = "postgresql:///mautrix-discord?host=/run/postgresql";
  };
}
```

If your PostgreSQL connection requires a password, use the [](#opt-services.mautrix-discord.environmentFile)
option to avoid storing secrets in the Nix store:

```nix
{
  services.mautrix-discord = {
    settings.appservice.database.uri = "postgresql://mautrix:$DB_PASSWORD@localhost/mautrix-discord";
    environmentFile = "/run/secrets/mautrix-discord-env";
  };
}
```

Where `/run/secrets/mautrix-discord-env` contains:
```
DB_PASSWORD=your-secure-password
```

### Direct Media {#module-services-mautrix-discord-direct-media}

To enable direct media for more efficient media handling:

```nix
{
  services.mautrix-discord.settings.bridge.direct_media = {
    enabled = true;
    server_name = "discord-media.example.com";
  };
}
```

::: {.note}
You'll need to configure your reverse proxy to route `discord-media.example.com`
to the bridge's media endpoint. See the
[direct media documentation](https://docs.mau.fi/bridges/go/discord/direct-media.html)
for details.

> :::

Reviewer 2: Why not make this a nixos option?
